## Director of Finance

Upon getting elected to Director of Finance, hereafter shortened to dof, you
will want to set up a meeting with the secretary of the associate engineering
dean, Linda Peterson, who will schedule a meeting with you, herself, and the
person responsible for budgeting inside the engineering department, Laurie
Rau. In this meeting they'll give advice on how to best construct a budget,
but alqso advice on what a well functioning UMEC government looks like.

Then there is the budget. You obviously can't do it alone just by looking at
previous years budgets (though those certainly do well for ballpark
estimates). At the first executive board meeting, the budget should be top
priority. This means that you will probably have to email the executive board
beforehand and ask them for a preliminary budget. Then, at the meeting, you
construct a draft, and bring the draft to a vote at a general body UMEC
meeting. After the budget is approved, email the associate engineering dean,
Dean Noble, with the budget. Make sure you CC Linda Peterson, as the Dean is a
busy guy and she makes sure he reads it! After you have the Dean's approval
email Jen Wegner, the assistant director of student affairs for the college of
engineering, letting her know the Dean has approved the budget and the 15K can
be transfered to the UMEC account. You may need the Dean to email her
directly. The transfer may take up to a month. The majority of what UMEC has
to work with is the 15K, but this has to be requested **each** semester. The
Student Government Fees that UMEC collects, which is around 9K, occur
automatically.

In order to reimburse anyone, you must be an authorized signer on [maize
pages][]. Please contact the previous board, who will then make you an
authorized signer. Since you are the dof, you'll be the person going to the
Union and turning in receipts at the Student Organization Accounts Service
(SOAS). The president and vice president have the same ability, but it is your
responsibility. On the bright side, you'll never pay for anything out of pocket
because you can't reimburse yourself.

[maize pages]: https://maizepages.umich.edu/

Managing the financial committee will vary from dof to dof, but something that
has worked in the past is for decisions to be made with the majority of the
committee in agreement with the dof, or the committee is unanimously against
the dof. As can be imagined, this works best with small number of members, but
make sure you meet the required numbered outlined in the by-laws [Article XI,
Section 2][].

[Article XI, Section 2]: /by-laws.html#section-2-3